---
slug: fhir-r5
title: FHIR R5
authors:
  name: Reshma Khilnani
  title: Medplum Core Team
  url: https://github.com/reshmakh
  image_url: https://github.com/reshmakh.png
tags: [fhir-datastore]
---

# FHIR R5: The Latest Standard for Interoperability in Healthcare

We are excited to hear about the release of [Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) R5](http://hl7.org/fhir/), the latest version of the healthcare data interoperability standard. This new version builds on the previous versions of FHIR and incorporates new features and improvements to further support healthcare data exchange and interoperability.

FHIR R5 includes enhancements to the [FHIR specification](/docs/api/fhir/resources), including additional resources, improved support for clinical workflows, and improved alignment with other healthcare data standards. The new version also includes updates to the FHIR conformance framework, which helps ensure that FHIR implementations are interoperable with each other.

In the future, we will upgrade our service to support FHIR R5 side by side with R4. This includes ensuring that our solutions comply with the latest FHIR R5 specifications and testing our products for interoperability with other FHIR R5-compliant systems.

We will do this while maintaining our support for FHIR R4 - which most of our customers rely on today. We will use our [Bot](/docs/bots) framework, [TypeScript SDK](/docs/sdk) and validation tools to help our customers implement the version of the spec that best suits their business needs.

We are excited about the potential of FHIR R5 to improve interoperability and enable better healthcare outcomes for patients. We continue to closely monitor industry adoption and compliance requirements and will strive to provide our customers with the most up-to-date solutions to meet their interoperability needs.

Thank you for your continued support, and we look forward to sharing more updates with you soon. If you are interested in updates related to FHIR R5, please reach out at hello@medplum.com.

## Related Reading

- [FHIR Forums Announcement](https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/179240-Announcements/topic/R5.20IS.20LIVE)
